doc/source/reference/properties/message-fromhost.rst, before:

.. _prop-message-fromhost:
.. _properties.message.fromhost:

fromhost
========

.. index::
   single: properties; fromhost
   single: fromhost

.. summary-start

Reports the hostname of the system from which the message was received.

.. summary-end

This property belongs to the **Message Properties** group.

:Name: fromhost
:Category: Message Properties
:Type: string

Description
-----------
Hostname of the system the message was received from (in a relay chain, this is
the system immediately in front of us and not necessarily the original sender).
This is a DNS-resolved name, except if that is not possible or DNS resolution
has been disabled. When ``preserveFQDN`` is "off" (the default), rsyslog strips
the domain from the sender's hostname if it matches the local system's domain.
When "on", the full FQDN from the DNS lookup is used. Reverse lookup results
are cached; see :ref:`reverse_dns_cache` for controlling cache timeout. Forward
lookups for outbound connections are not cached by rsyslog and are resolved via
the system resolver whenever a connection is made.

Usage
-----
.. _properties.message.fromhost-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   template(name="example" type="list") {
       property(name="fromhost")
   }

See also
--------
See :doc:`../../configuration/properties` for the category overview.

Commit message:

runtime: fix preserveFQDN local name trimming
runtime: fix preserveFQDN local name trimming

Operators rely on stable host naming for routing and storage.
This aligns local host naming with configured expectations.

Impact: when preserveFQDN is off, fromhost uses short hostnames.

Before: preserveFQDN off still cached full FQDN in fromhost.
After: preserveFQDN off stores the short hostname before the first dot.

Create a localName property from the short hostname when a domain is
present and preserveFQDN is disabled. Update the fromhost docs to
describe the on/off behavior and keep guidance for hostname and
 usage.

Refs: https://github.com/rsyslog/rsyslog/issues/195
AI-Agent: Codex

doc/source/reference/properties/message-fromhost.rst, after:

.. _prop-message-fromhost:
.. _properties.message.fromhost:

fromhost
========

.. index::
   single: properties; fromhost
   single: fromhost

.. summary-start

Reports the hostname of the system from which the message was received.

.. summary-end

This property belongs to the **Message Properties** group.

:Name: fromhost
:Category: Message Properties
:Type: string

Description
-----------
Hostname of the system the message was received from (in a relay chain, this is
the system immediately in front of us and not necessarily the original sender).
This is a DNS-resolved name, except if that is not possible or DNS resolution
has been disabled. When ``preserveFQDN`` is "off" (the default), rsyslog uses
only the short hostname (the portion before the first dot) when a domain is
present. When "on", the full FQDN from the DNS lookup is used. Reverse lookup
results are cached; see :ref:`reverse_dns_cache` for controlling cache timeout.
Forward lookups for outbound connections are not cached by rsyslog and are
resolved via the system resolver whenever a connection is made.

Usage
-----
.. _properties.message.fromhost-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   template(name="example" type="list") {
       property(name="fromhost")
   }

See also
--------
See :doc:`../../configuration/properties` for the category overview.
